.\" \(hy*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.TH DISPLAY\(hyDHAMMAPADA 1  "April 2003" "1.0" "display-dhammapada man page"
.SH NAME
display\(hydhammapada \- display a verse from the Dhammapada
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B display\(hydhammapada
.I [OPTIONS] [num]
.br
.B dhamma
.I [OPTIONS]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The Dhammapada is an anthology of 423 verses from the Kuddaka Nikaya
part of the Theravada Pali Canon.  It contains Buddhist ethical and 
spiritual precepts.  The included English translations are by the Buddhist Publication Society,
John Richards, and (archaic) F. Max Muller.
.P
.B display\(hydhammapada
and
.B dhamma
both print to the standard output.
.P
.B xdhamma
prints using
.B notify\(hysend
.P 
See
.B man xdhamma
for details
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.TP 8
.B \(hys
Use the BPS translation (default).
.TP 8
.B \(hyr
Use the Richards translation.
.TP 8
.B \(hym
Use the Muller translation.
.TP 8
.B \(hyb
Display corresponding verses from both translations.
.TP 8
.B \(hypl 
Use the Polish translation (default for Polish locale).
.TP 8
.B [num]
Print the given number verse.
.TP 8
.B all 
Print all the verses.
.P
With no arguments a random verse is printed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
To display a verse each time you log in on a console or 
open a terminal, put 
.B display\(hydhammapada
in your
.IR ~/.profile ,
.I ~/.bash_profile
or
.IR ~/.login ,
as appropriate for your shell.
.P
To display a verse each time you log in on a graphical (X Window)
session, run
.B xdhamma
in your DE session start\(hyup or
.IR ~/.xsession .
.P
To use display\(hydhammapada with cowsay
.P
.B
display\(hydhammapada | cowsay \(hyW 120 \(hyt
.P
To use display\(hydhammapada with zenity
.P
.B
display\(hydhammapada | zenity \(hy\(hytext\(hyinfo \(hy\(hytitle="Dhammapada Verse" \(hy\(hywidth=600 \(hy\(hyheight=200
.nf
.P
KDE has "amor" toy that can display various tips.  To use the dhammapada for that enter these commands at shell prompt:
.LP
.B
mkdir ~/.kde/share/apps/amor
.B
display\(hydhammapada \(hyr all |perl \(hy0777 \(hype 's/\en\es*\en\es*\en/\en%\en/g' >~/.kde/share/apps/amor/tips
.fi
.P
Then start amor K\(hy>Toys\(hy>Amor, right click on amor animation, select "Options" and check "Show random tips".
.P
One can automatically attach Dhammapada verse in e-mail footer. To do this with  
.B mutt 
add 
.B
set signature=display-dhammapada|
in your
.IR ~/.muttrc
file.
.SH FILES
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hyenglish\(hybps.txt
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hyenglish\(hytransl.txt
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hyalternate.txt
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hypolish\(hytransl.txt
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR notify\(hysend
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on Launchpad :
.I https://bugs.launchpad.net/display-dhammapada
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Authors:
Program: 
display-dhammapada was originally written by Richard Cepas <rch@online.lt> and later updated by 
.B bodhi.zazen
<bodhizazen at fedoraproject dot org> and
.B paultag
<paultag at ubuntu.com>
.P
.B Copyright GPL v3
.P
Home Page:
.I http://bodhizazen.net/display-dhammapada/
.P
BPS translation by Acharya Buddharakkhita: Copyright (C) 1985 Buddhist Publication Society.
.P
Richards' English translation of the Dhammapada: Copyright (C) 1993 John
Richards, Pembrokeshire (UK), permission granted for use here.
See http://eawc.evansville.edu/anthology/dhammapada.htm
.P
Muller's translation of the Dhammapada: Public Domain, used here courtesy of
Project Gutenberg.
.P
Polish translation (by Zbigniew Becker): Public Domain, as explained at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/publicdomain
.br
See also http://mahajana.net/dhammapada/
