.\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.TH XDHAMMA 1  "April 2003" "1.0" "xdhamma man page"
.SH NAME
.P
xdhamma \- graphical displayed verse from the Dhammapada.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B xdhamma
.I [OPTIONS] [num]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The Dhammapada is an anthology of 423 verses from the Kuddaka Nikaya
part of the Theravada Pali Canon.  It contains Buddhist ethical and 
spiritual precepts.  One of the translations is by John Richards; the 
other is an older translation by F. Max Muller.
.P
.B xdhamma 
prints a graphical notification using
.B notify\(hysend
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.TP 8
.B \(hyr | \(hy\(hyrichards (Default)
Use the Richards translation.
.TP 8
.B \(hym | \(hy\(hymuller
Use the Muller translation.
.TP 8
.B \(hyp | \(hy\(hypolish
Use the Polish translation (default for Polish locale).
.TP 8
.B \(hyg | \(hy\(hygrunge
Use the grunge Buddha icon with notify\(hysend.
.TP 8
.B \(hye | \(hy\(hyenso
Use the enso icon with notify\(hysend.
.TP 8
.B \(hyl | \(hy\(hylotus
Use the lotus icon with notify\(hysend.
.TP 8
.B \(hyk | \(hy\(hykdialog
Display Dhammapada verse with kdialog.
.TP 8
.B \(hyz | \(hy\(hyzenity
Display Dhammapada verse with zenity.
.TP 8
.B [num]
Print the given number verse.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
To display a verse each time you log in on a graphical (X Window)
session, run
.B xdhamma
in your DE session start\(hyup or
.IR ~/.xsession .
.SH FILES
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hyenglish\(hytransl.txt
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hyalternate.txt
.P
.I /usr/share/display\(hydhammapada/dhammapada\(hypolish\(hytransl.txt
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR notify\(hysend
.SH BUGS
.P
Please report bugs on Launchpad :
.I
https://bugs.launchpad.net/display-dhammapada
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Author:
.B bodhi.zazen 
<bodhizazen at fedoraproject dot org>  
.P
Program:
.B Copyright GPL v3
.P
Home Page:
.I
http://bodhizazen.net/display-dhammapada/
.P
Richards' English translation of the Dhammapada: Copyright (C) 1993 John
Richards, Pembrokeshire (UK), permission granted for use here.
See http://eawc.evansville.edu/anthology/dhammapada.htm
.P
Muller's translation of the Dhammapada: Public Domain, used here courtesy of
Project Gutenberg.
.P
Polish translation (by Zbigniew Becker): Public Domain, as explained at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/publicdomain
.br
See also http://mahajana.net/dhammapada/
